README.md, before:

# uBlue Website

This is the MkDocs repository that hosts the website for [ublue.it](https://ublue.it).

## Developing

### Quick Setup

Use the power of containers so you can quickly contribute and test your changes locally! Just clone this repo and run:

```
./bin/poetry install
./bin/poetry run mkdocs serve
```

The embedded script will automatically create a container with the poetry dependencies so you don't need to install anything on your host!

### Manual Setup

You will need [Python version 3.10 or higher](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/).

1. Setup project dependencies `poetry install`
2. Run the local development server `poetry run mkdocs serve`
3. Open a browser to [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000). This will auto-reload on file changes

If you have access to mkdocs-material-insiders, run the following to install it:

```sh
pip install git+ssh://git@github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material-insiders.git
```

## Contributing

1. Create a [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) of this repository
2. Create a new branch for your contribution `git checkout -b my-new-branch`
3. Add your contributions! Make changes, use `poetry run mkdocs serve` to validate those changes
4. Commit and push your changes to your branch
5. Open [a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) to have it reviewed

## Editing the Image list

Edit `.github/ublue-scan.yml` to add images to the ignore list.
Use this for images that you don't want to be shown on [ublue.it/images](https://ublue.it/images/). 
Typically we only want to show user-facing images on the site. 

## [![Repography logo](https://images.repography.com/logo.svg)](https://repography.com) / Recent activity [![Time period](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_badge.svg)](https://repography.com)
[![Timeline graph](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_timeline.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/commits)
[![Issue status graph](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_issues.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/issues)
[![Pull request status graph](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_prs.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/pulls)
[![Activity map](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_map.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/commits)

## [![Repography logo](https://images.repography.com/logo.svg)](https://repography.com) / Top contributors
[![Top contributors](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/top-contributors/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_table.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/graphs/contributors)

Commit message:

refactor: use remote poetry image
Inspired by @akdev1l 's script and Containerfile, instead use an alias
to download and run a pre-built poetry image.

README.md, after:

# uBlue Website

This is the MkDocs repository that hosts the website for [ublue.it](https://ublue.it).

## Developing

### Install Poetry

#### Quick Setup

Use the power of containers so you can quickly contribute and test your changes locally!

Add the following alias to your `~/.bashrc` (or your shell's comparable file), and source that rc file (or start a new terminal):

```
alias poetry='if ! [ -d "$HOME/.cache/pypoetry" ]; \
  then \
    mkdir -p "$HOME/.cache/pypoetry"; \
  fi; \
  podman run --rm -it \
    --security-opt label=disable \
    -v "$PWD:/pwd" \
    -v "$HOME/.cache/pypoetry:/root/.cache/pypoetry" \
    --net=host \
    ghcr.io/bsherman/poetry:latest "$@"'
```
When run, the `poetry` alias automatically downloads and runs a poetry image in a container so you don't need to install it or dependencies on your host.

#### Manual Setup

If you don't want to use the poetry container alias, you will need [Python version 3.10 or higher](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and then to install [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/) following the official documentation.

### Run and Test

Once poetry is installed:

1. Setup project dependencies: `poetry install`
2. Run the local development server: `poetry run mkdocs serve`
3. Open a browser to [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000). This will auto-reload on file changes

If you have access to mkdocs-material-insiders, run the following to install it:

```sh
pip install git+ssh://git@github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material-insiders.git
```

## Contributing

1. Create a [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) of this repository
2. Create a new branch for your contribution `git checkout -b my-new-branch`
3. Add your contributions! Make changes, use `poetry run mkdocs serve` to validate those changes
4. Commit and push your changes to your branch
5. Open [a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) to have it reviewed

## Editing the Image list

Edit `.github/ublue-scan.yml` to add images to the ignore list.
Use this for images that you don't want to be shown on [ublue.it/images](https://ublue.it/images/). 
Typically we only want to show user-facing images on the site. 

## [![Repography logo](https://images.repography.com/logo.svg)](https://repography.com) / Recent activity [![Time period](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_badge.svg)](https://repography.com)
[![Timeline graph](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_timeline.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/commits)
[![Issue status graph](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_issues.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/issues)
[![Pull request status graph](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_prs.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/pulls)
[![Activity map](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/recent-activity/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_map.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/commits)

## [![Repography logo](https://images.repography.com/logo.svg)](https://repography.com) / Top contributors
[![Top contributors](https://images.repography.com/35181738/ublue-os/website/top-contributors/SdqIfcQSR-z77fWYqUAaMF4VLejiPo7SjYuESFGqH1w/JQCzzJexnEhmDyF4qC8VF6W5CVe79qKT2EkOcS4F2Is_table.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/graphs/contributors)
