docs/images/bluefin/admin.md, before:

# Bluefin Administration

## Day to Day Operation

### Overwriting System Defaults

Most Bluefin system defaults are shipped on the base image along with Fedora configuration in `/usr/etc`. Most of these can be overriden by placing a file in `/etc`. 

For example, the Distrobox configuration is in `/usr/etc/distrobox/distrobox.ini`. Your customization options will be placed in `/etc/distrobox/distrobox.ini`. This is useful for situations where you need a copy of the original file for reference. 

Check the [XDG Base Directory Specification](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html) for more information on configuration options, in particular `~/.local` and `~/.config`. 

### System Updates

Bluefin is designed to be "hands off". System updates apply once a day, and Flatpaks update twice a day [in the background](https://github.com/ublue-os/config/tree/main/files/usr/lib/systemd). Updates are applied when the system reboots. Therefore, it is recommended to routinely power off your device when it's not being used to ensure kernel updates are being applied. Application updates (like the browser) happen independently of this and don't require a reboot.

See [configuration of updates](/faq/#how-do-i-configure-automatic-updates) if you want to change the default behavior.

Machine firmware updates are provided through the standard Software Center:

![Firmware updates](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/assets/1264109/b6706ae4-d519-4508-b350-defce27aa8e4)

## Installing Applications

Use the GNOME Software Center to [install applications from Flathub](https://flathub.org/). Unlike stock Fedora, system updates and upgrades are not handled by this application, it's scope has been reduced to only install Flatpaks from Flathub.

![GNOME Software Center](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/assets/1264109/86e06ae4-0aec-46ef-9709-936c3e938f70)

## Upgrades and Throttle Settings

!!! note
 "This feature is incomplete"

Bluefin is available with two throttle settings.

The latest stable release of Fedora is always tagged `latest`. The still-supported but older release is labelled as `gts`, which is slang for "Grand Touring Series`, for those who wish to enjoy the ride from a slower cadence. It is the default Bluefin experience starting with Fedora 39.

Explicit version tags of the Fedora release are available for users who wish to manually handle their upgrade cycle:

To lock to Fedora 39

```bash
sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin:39
```

To always be on the latest stable release:

```bash
sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin:latest
```

Additionally rebasing to a specific date tag is encouraged if you need to "pin" to a specific day or version:

```bash
sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin:38-20231101
```

Check the [Fedora Silverblue User Guide](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-silverblue/) for more information.

## Remote Management

!!! note
 "This feature is incomplete"

Bluefin includes Cockpit for machine management. We're hoping to include more out-of-the-box management templates, please [check this issue](https://github.com/ublue-os/bluefin/issues/271) if you're interested in volunteering.

## Verification

These images are signed with sigstore's [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/). You can verify the signature by downloading the `cosign.pub` key from this repo and running the following command:

```bash
cosign verify --key cosign.pub ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin
```

## Building Locally

1. Clone this repository and `cd` into the working directory

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ublue-os/bluefin.git
    cd bluefin
    ```

2. Make modifications if desired

3. Build the image (Note that this will download and the entire image)

    ```bash
    podman build . -t bluefin
    ```

4. [Podman push](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-push.1.html) to a registry of your choice.

5. Rebase to your image to wherever you pushed it:

    ```bash
    sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://whatever/bluefin:latest
    ```

Commit message:

fix: note blocks and update versions

docs/images/bluefin/admin.md, after:

# Bluefin Administration

## Day to Day Operation

### Overwriting System Defaults

Most Bluefin system defaults are shipped on the base image along with Fedora configuration in `/usr/etc`. Most of these can be overriden by placing a file in `/etc`. 

For example, the Distrobox configuration is in `/usr/etc/distrobox/distrobox.ini`. Your customization options will be placed in `/etc/distrobox/distrobox.ini`. This is useful for situations where you need a copy of the original file for reference. 

Check the [XDG Base Directory Specification](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html) for more information on configuration options, in particular `~/.local` and `~/.config`. 

### System Updates

Bluefin is designed to be "hands off". System updates apply once a day, and Flatpaks update twice a day [in the background](https://github.com/ublue-os/config/tree/main/files/usr/lib/systemd). Updates are applied when the system reboots. Therefore, it is recommended to routinely power off your device when it's not being used to ensure kernel updates are being applied. Application updates (like the browser) happen independently of this and don't require a reboot.

See [configuration of updates](/faq/#how-do-i-configure-automatic-updates) if you want to change the default behavior.

Machine firmware updates are provided through the standard Software Center:

![Firmware updates](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/assets/1264109/b6706ae4-d519-4508-b350-defce27aa8e4)

## Installing Applications

Use the GNOME Software Center to [install applications from Flathub](https://flathub.org/). Unlike stock Fedora, system updates and upgrades are not handled by this application, it's scope has been reduced to only install Flatpaks from Flathub.

![GNOME Software Center](https://github.com/ublue-os/website/assets/1264109/86e06ae4-0aec-46ef-9709-936c3e938f70)

## Upgrades and Throttle Settings

Bluefin is available with two throttle settings.

The latest stable release of Fedora is always tagged `latest`. The still-supported but older release is labelled as `gts`, which is slang for "Grand Touring Series`, for those who wish to enjoy the ride from a slower cadence. It is the default Bluefin experience starting with Fedora 38.

Explicit version tags of the Fedora release are available for users who wish to manually handle their upgrade cycle manually:

To lock to Fedora 39

```bash
sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin:39
```

To always be on the latest stable release:

```bash
sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin:latest
```

Additionally rebasing to a specific date tag is encouraged if you need to "pin" to a specific day or version:

```bash
sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin:38-20231101
```

Check the [Fedora Silverblue User Guide](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-silverblue/) for more information.

## Remote Management

!!! note

    This feature is incomplete and needs contributors to make it a reality

Bluefin includes Cockpit for machine management. We're hoping to include more out-of-the-box management templates, please [check this issue](https://github.com/ublue-os/bluefin/issues/271) if you're interested in volunteering.

## Verification

These images are signed with sigstore's [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/). You can verify the signature by downloading the `cosign.pub` key from this repo and running the following command:

```bash
cosign verify --key cosign.pub ghcr.io/ublue-os/bluefin
```

## Building Locally

1. Clone this repository and `cd` into the working directory

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ublue-os/bluefin.git
    cd bluefin
    ```

2. Make modifications if desired

3. Build the image (Note that this will download and the entire image)

    ```bash
    podman build . -t bluefin
    ```

4. [Podman push](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-push.1.html) to a registry of your choice.

5. Rebase to your image to wherever you pushed it:

    ```bash
    sudo rpm-ostree rebase ostree-image-signed:docker://whatever/bluefin:latest
    ```
