docs/installation.md, before:

Check out the [upstream installation documentation](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-silverblue/installation/) for more information.

Notably:

- Dual boot configurations are not supported. We recommend using your PC's BIOS/UEFI boot menu for dual boot configuration so that each OS has its own disk. 
- Manual partitioning is not suppported.

!!! Info "This ISO is experimental"

    This method of consuming Fedora is new, and will not be integrated into Fedora until at least F39. Though this method is typically more reliable than traditional distributions, take care to [read the user guide](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-silverblue/) and manage your expectations accordingly. As with all operating systems, make a point to back up the data you care about! 

## Installation Instructions

Each uBlue image can be installed from the boot menu of the installation ISO. If you're using an existing Fedora Silverblue/Kinoite system check out the [image page](/images) for rebasing information (you don't need to reinstall).

For new systems, follow the instructions below: 

1. [Download the ISO](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/releases)
1. Use the [Fedora Media Writer](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.fedoraproject.MediaWriter) to write the ISO to a USB stick. Mac and Windows users can [download it here](https://getfedora.org/en/workstation/download/). Or use a tool of your choice.
1. Select the image you want to install from the boot menu. The `main` images will work on systems with Intel and AMD GPUs, and the images tagged with `nvidia` include the proper drivers: 
![installer](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/230446211-a0c4b2e8-2d31-44cb-9179-202f4b9fc52d.png)
![installer2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/230446224-ae43322f-9e4d-4a17-8133-a8bf6def3e64.png)

!!! Info "Disk check"

    The installer will do an integrity check after you've made a selection, this is normal but can be skipped by hitting Escape. The disk detection step might also take longer than expected.

1. If you are familiar with Anaconda there are a few changes you might notice:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/228308230-4cd981f7-d524-44c3-80ff-49e1b62e58fd.png)

1. "Kickstart Insufficient" is expected, select that item and select the disk to install to and click Done at the top left of the screen. User creation is also done at this step instead of first boot.
1. Ensure the machine is on the network by configuring that, otherwise you will get an error (see below)!
1. Select each screen with a warning triangle and make the selection you want until the screen looks similar to this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/228308903-d3289faf-8d53-4999-9296-2facc364d07b.png)

1. Continue on with the installation

!!! Warning 

    The progress bar during installation will start, but will not progress until towards the end of installation. Depending on the image size this might take a long time. This may appear as though the installation is stalled.  

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/228309296-993f7058-7bc7-4157-b1da-3fe908889e37.png)

When the installationn is complete it will ask you to reboot, then you're done!

## Reporting Issues

Please [file an issue](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/issues) if you encounter any problems. An error screen usually looks like this:  

![229818630-cb7e4fb5-42a4-4890-8e75-f92d0ea8dd5b](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/230695149-b2c30851-ead0-46f5-8c28-e6aed2b4f6de.png)

Commit message:

feat: add more installation gotchas

docs/installation.md, after:

Check out the [upstream installation documentation](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-silverblue/installation/) for more information.

Notably:

- Dual boot configurations are not supported. We recommend using your PC's BIOS/UEFI boot menu for dual boot configuration so that each OS has its own disk. 
- Manual partitioning is not suppported.

!!! Info "This ISO is experimental"

    This method of consuming Fedora is new, and will not be integrated into Fedora until at least F39. Though this method is typically more reliable than traditional distributions, take care to [read the user guide](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-silverblue/) and manage your expectations accordingly. As with all operating systems, make a point to back up the data you care about! 

## Installation Instructions

Each uBlue image can be installed from the boot menu of the installation ISO. If you're using an existing Fedora Silverblue/Kinoite system check out the [image page](/images) for rebasing information (you don't need to reinstall).

For new systems, follow the instructions below: 

1. [Download the ISO](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/releases)
1. Use the [Fedora Media Writer](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.fedoraproject.MediaWriter) to write the ISO to a USB stick. Mac and Windows users can [download it here](https://getfedora.org/en/workstation/download/). Or use a tool of your choice.
1. Select the image you want to install from the boot menu. The `main` images will work on systems with Intel and AMD GPUs, and the images tagged with `nvidia` include the proper drivers: 
![installer](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/230446211-a0c4b2e8-2d31-44cb-9179-202f4b9fc52d.png)
![installer2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/230446224-ae43322f-9e4d-4a17-8133-a8bf6def3e64.png)

!!! Info "Disk check"

    The installer will do an integrity check after you've made a selection, this is normal but can be skipped by hitting Escape. The disk detection step might also take longer than expected.

1. If you are familiar with Anaconda there are a few changes you might notice:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/228308230-4cd981f7-d524-44c3-80ff-49e1b62e58fd.png)

1. "Kickstart Insufficient" is expected, select that item and select the disk to install to and click Done at the top left of the screen. User creation is also done at this step instead of first boot.
1. Ensure the machine is on the network by configuring that, otherwise you will get an error (see below)!
1. Select each screen with a warning triangle and make the selection you want until the screen looks similar to this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/228308903-d3289faf-8d53-4999-9296-2facc364d07b.png)

1. Continue on with the installation

!!! Warning 

    The progress bar during installation will start, but will not progress until towards the end of installation. Depending on the image size this might take a long time. This may appear as though the installation is stalled.  

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/228309296-993f7058-7bc7-4157-b1da-3fe908889e37.png)

When the installationn is complete it will ask you to reboot, then you're done!

## Other gotchas

- Reminder: this is a netinstaller!
- If the network connection is spotty the installation download of the image might stall or time out, resulting in an erorr below
    - Retrying the installation might help depending on network conditions
    - Using an ethernet connection is usually more reliable
- The generated USB stick will always pull the latest image, you shouldn't need to generate a new USB stick often 
- We are looking for volunteers to help generate proper "offline" ISOs

## Reporting Issues

Please [file an issue](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/issues) if you encounter any problems. An error screen usually looks like this:  

![229818630-cb7e4fb5-42a4-4890-8e75-f92d0ea8dd5b](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1264109/230695149-b2c30851-ead0-46f5-8c28-e6aed2b4f6de.png)
