docs/images/bazzite/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Bazzite

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/rJonVYveT.jpg)
<p style="text-align: center; font-weight: 600; color: red">We want YOU to contribute to Bazzite and Universal Blue. </p>

Bazzite is an image from [Universal Blue](https://universal-blue.org/) and you should follow Universal Blue's [contribution guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING/) before proceeding.  

Check out the Bazzite's [issue tracker](https://github.com/ublue-os/bazzite/issues) to see what issues users are currently experiencing.  Also check out the current [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/ublue-os/projects/1/views/1) for Universal Blue.

If you feel comfortable with bash scripting, working with containers, or anything upstream (Fedora, Flatpak, etc.) then contributing to Bazzite and the Universal Blue project might be the thing for you!

### Major Overhauls
- [YAFTI (Bazzite Portal)](https://github.com/ublue-os/yafti/)
    - Prior Python knowledge would be helpful.
    - Intended as both a first-time boot application **AND** system configurator that can be used anytime.
    - You can also PR or suggest any applications that you would like installed with the Bazzite Portal.
- GUI for switching deployments.
    - Our images get 90 days of rollbacks from Github.
- GUI for rebasing images without having to enter a terminal command.

### The Little Things Add Up
- Adding features or fixing bugs by submitting a pull request.
- Reporting issues and feature requests to either our [issue tracker](https://github.com/ublue-os/bazzite/issues) or [discussions](https://github.com/orgs/ublue-os/discussions/categories/bazzite).
- Documentation surrounding Bazzite and Universal Blue.
    - Language translations are also welcomed.
- Testing Bazzite on unique hardware configurations.
- Tutorials and showcases of Bazzite in the media.

Commit message:

feat: Add Lorax and Anaconda Skills in CONTRIBUTING (#551)
Taken from the latest Fedora podcast.

docs/images/bazzite/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Bazzite

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/rJonVYveT.jpg)
<p style="text-align: center; font-weight: 600; color: red">We want YOU to contribute to Bazzite and Universal Blue. </p>

Bazzite is an image from [Universal Blue](https://universal-blue.org/) and you should follow Universal Blue's [contribution guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING/) before proceeding.  

Check out the Bazzite's [issue tracker](https://github.com/ublue-os/bazzite/issues) to see what issues users are currently experiencing.  Also check out the current [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/ublue-os/projects/1/views/1) for Universal Blue.

If you feel comfortable with bash scripting, working with containers, or anything upstream (Fedora, Flatpak, etc.) then contributing to Bazzite and the Universal Blue project might be the thing for you!

### Major Overhauls
- Installation process
    - Skills in [Lorax](https://weldr.io/lorax/f28-branch/lorax.html) and the [Anaconda installer](https://www.fedoraproject.org/wiki/Anaconda).
- [YAFTI (Bazzite Portal)](https://github.com/ublue-os/yafti/)
    - Prior Python knowledge would be helpful.
    - Intended as both a first-time boot application **AND** system configurator that can be used anytime.
    - You can also PR or suggest any applications that you would like installed with the Bazzite Portal.
- GUI for switching deployments.
    - Our images get 90 days of rollbacks from Github.
- GUI for rebasing images without having to enter a terminal command.

### The Little Things Add Up
- Adding features or fixing bugs by submitting a pull request.
- Reporting issues and feature requests to either our [issue tracker](https://github.com/ublue-os/bazzite/issues) or [discussions](https://github.com/orgs/ublue-os/discussions/categories/bazzite).
- Documentation surrounding Bazzite and Universal Blue.
    - Language translations are also welcomed.
- Testing Bazzite on unique hardware configurations.
- Tutorials and showcases of Bazzite in the media.
