docs/images/bazzite/waydroid.md, before:

# Waydroid Configuration

Open a host terminal and enter this command to setup Waydroid:

```bash
just init-waydroid
```

## Gapps, ARM translation, and [other goodies](https://github.com/casualsnek/waydroid_script#waydroid-extras-script)

Open a host terminal and enter `just configure-waydroid`

## SELinux in permissive mode (only if you have issues with any of the above!)

SELinux is a kernel module used by Fedora (and thus Bazzite) to increase security on a Linux system. 
There may be an issue with SELinux file re-labeling in OCI images that prevents Waydroid from being used without SELinux being set to permissive first.

To put SELinux in permissive mode, open a host terminal and enter:

```bash
sudoedit /etc/selinux/config
```

Then, change the line that says:

```bash
SELINUX=enforcing
```

to instead be

```bash
SELINUX=permissive
```

Save this file and reboot.

## Hybrid Graphics Fix

If your PC is running multiple GPUs and you experience graphical corruption then execute this [script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Quackdoc/waydroid-scripts/main/waydroid-choose-gpu.sh) to fix it.

## Reset Waydroid
!!! note
 This will delete all of your current Waydroid data!

Enter `just reset-waydroid` if you run into any major issues.

Commit message:

chore: Update Waydroid guide once again
chore: Better instructions for Waydroid hybrid graphics script fix.

In my experience as of trying to install Waydroid again on the current build of Bazzite:

- SELinux did not have any issues being in enforcing mode, but if anyone has issues again they are free to restore those instructions later.
- Google Play Certification is still needed
- My desktop, which has 2 GPUs, needed the script so Waydroid can launch correctly.

docs/images/bazzite/waydroid.md, after:

# Waydroid Configuration

Open a host terminal and enter this command to setup Waydroid:

```bash
just init-waydroid
```

## Gapps, ARM translation, and [other goodies](https://github.com/casualsnek/waydroid_script#waydroid-extras-script)

Open a host terminal and enter `just configure-waydroid`

## Google Play Certification (Optional but recommended)

With waydroid open, open a terminal window and run

```bash
sudo waydroid shell
```

Once you've entered the waydroid shell (It should just say `:/ #` before your text cursor), enter the command:

```bash
ANDROID_RUNTIME_ROOT=/apex/com.android.runtime ANDROID_DATA=/data ANDROID_TZDATA_ROOT=/apex/com.android.tzdata ANDROID_I18N_ROOT=/apex/com.android.i18n sqlite3 /data/data/com.google.android.gsf/databases/gservices.db "select * from main where name = \"android_id\";"
```

When you run this command, your terminal should output `android_id|` and some numbers. Copy the numbers, then visit [this website](<https://www.google.com/android/uncertified>).

Paste the number in the box that says "Google Services Framework ID", answer the captcha (If one is present), then hit register. You should see a popup saying "Device Registered" in the bottom left.

You can now type `exit` to leave the Waydroid shell.

Stop the Waydroid container and relaunch Waydroid.
```bash
waydroid session stop
```

## Hybrid Graphics Fix

If your PC is running multiple GPUs and you experience either graphical corruption or Waydroid does not launch, then execute this [script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Quackdoc/waydroid-scripts/main/waydroid-choose-gpu.sh) to fix it.  

Easiest way to run this script is to copy all of this text into a text file save it as `waydroid_fix.sh` to your Home directory.  Open a host terminal and entering: 
```bash
sudo ./waydroid_fix.sh
```
Then select your dedicated GPU.

## Reset Waydroid
!!! note
 This will delete all of your current Waydroid data!

Enter `just reset-waydroid` if you run into any major issues.
